feat: bundle size article (#1)
ealain/articles: blog-posts/guardian-bundle-size/guardian-bundle-size.md

---
published: false

> title: 'Best practice (1): control the size of your Lambda function bundle'

Reviewer: Un truc un peu plus punchy, comme "AWS Lambda 101: shave that bundle down", qu'est ce que t'en penses ?

Reviewer: Et en anglais tu capitalize tous les premières lettres : https://www.grammarly.com/blog/capitalization-in-the-titles/

Reviewer 2: D'accord avec @fredericbarthelet !
Après, si tu veux garder quelque chose du style `Best practice (1)`, je pense qu'il vaudrait mieux transformer ça en `Serverless Best Practices (1)`

Author: Fixed

cover_image:
description: ''
tags: serverless, lambda, quality, AWS
series:
canonical_url:
---

> _This article is part of a series on [Guardian][guardian], an open-source, highly configurable, automated best-practice audit tool for Serverless architectures._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_This article is part of a series on [Guardian][guardian], an open-source, highly configurable, automated best-practice audit tool for AWS serverless architectures._
```

Ca traite uniquement AWS, et Serverless avec un s majuscule fait référence au framework, pas au paradigm et à l'offre de service

# The lighter, the better

A light bundle will positively impact your Serverless architecture for at least two reasons.

## 1. A light deployment package reduces the cold start of your Lambda function

> The Serverless Framework automatically bundles your code and uploads it to AWS. The underlying tools are [serverless-webpack][serverless-webpack] or [serverless-esbuild][serverless-esbuild], which should be preferred for its shorter configuration and better performance.

Reviewer: Tourne le comme un exemple, tout le monde qui utilise guardian n'utilise pas forcément le framework Serverless

Reviewer: De plus toutes les personnes qui utilisent guardian (ou même le framework Serverless), n'utilisent pas forcémenet des lambdas en NodeJS

Reviewer 2: D'accord avec @fredericbarthelet, ici l'idée que tu veux transmettre c'est "Utiliser des outils adéquats pour automatiquement bundler vos lambdas avec une taille minimale. Si vous utilisez le framework Serverless, les plugins ... et ... sont là pour ça. Préférez utiliser ce dernier, pour telle et telle raison`

Author: Fixed

> Not only does the size impact the time it takes to upload the bundle, it also significantly impacts the cold start.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reducing the size of the bundle will reduce the time it takes to upload the bundle, and also significantly reduce the lambda's cold start.
```

![Cold start durations](./assets/bundle-size-impact-on-cold-start.png 'Cold start durations per deployment size (https://mikhail.io/serverless/coldstarts/aws/#does-package-size-matter)')

## 2. AWS enforces quotas on deployment resources

> Smaller bundles will help you respect [AWS quotas][quotas].

Reviewer 2: On peut rajouter une phrase pour expliquer vite fait: `Smaller bundles equals more lambdas in your AWS account!`

Author: Fixed

> You should use appropriate tools to bundle your Lambda functions with a minimal size. For example, the Serverless Framework automatically bundles your code and uploads it to AWS. In Node.js functions, the underlying tools are [serverless-webpack][serverless-webpack] or [serverless-esbuild][serverless-esbuild], which should be preferred for its shorter configuration and better performance.

Reviewer 3: Le 'its' correspond a serverless-webpack, serverless-esbuild ou les deux ?

Author: Fixed. Je ne mentionne plus serverless-webpack. Pour info, le framework Serverless a besoin d'un plugin pour bundler le code

| Resource                                          | Quota  |
|---------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Lambda function deployment package (zipped)       | 50 MB  |
| Lambda function deployment package (uncompressed) | 250 MB |
| Total deployment packages                         | 75 GB  |

> # Guardian is your solution to easily check all your bundles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Guardian is your solution to easily check the size of your bundles
```

> [Guardian][guardian] now offers a **new rule** to warn you when uploading bundles over 5 MB. This is a demanding rule because this threshold can easily be reached. Gather your team and decide what deployment bundles should be limited to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Guardian][guardian] now offers a **new rule** to warn you when uploading bundles over 5 MB. This is a demanding rule because this threshold can easily be reached. Gather your team and decide what deployment bundles this rule should be limited to.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Guardian][guardian] now offers a **new rule** to warn you when uploading bundles over 5 MB. This is a demanding rule because this threshold can easily be reached. Gather your team and decide what size the bundles should be limited to.
```

Est plus clair je pense

> 

Reviewer 2: On peut montrer un exemple de configuration pour la règle, histoire d'être plus explicite

Author: Pour l'instant, on ne peut pas configurer les règles.

> Guardian comes with **many rules** to help you make the best decisions for your Serverless project. Guardian will help you identify where your code can be optimized to achieve better performance at a lower cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Guardian comes with **many rules** to help you make the best decisions for your Serverless project. It will help you identify where your code can be optimized to achieve better performance at a lower cost.
```

# Guardian how-to

Using Guardian is very easy.

Install `sls-dev-tools`
```

> npm -g install sls-dev-tools

Author: Pas ouf le `-g`
Linker le paquet sur NPM.
Mettre dans le README
- un exemple d'utilisation en local
- un exemple d'utilisation en CI

```

Check your deployment
```
sls-dev-tools --ci [-l {YOUR_PROJECT_LOCATION}] [-p {PROFILE}] [-n {YOUR_STACK_NAME}] [-r {YOUR_REGION}] [-t {START_TIME}] [-i {INTERVAL}]
```

# See also

> There are plenty of tools out there to optimize the size of your bundles. [Serverless Analyze Bundle Plugin][serverless-analyze-bundle-plugin] integrates with the Serverless Framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are plenty of tools out there to optimize the size of your bundles. For instance the [Serverless Analyze Bundle Plugin][serverless-analyze-bundle-plugin] integrates with the Serverless Framework and helps you diagnose which of your NodeJS dependency is not properly tree-shaked.
```

Reviewer 2: Super !
Merci pour la pub :heart_eyes:

Author: Il faut se serrer les coudes entre habitants du nuage

> [guardian]: https://github.com/aleios-cloud/sls-dev-tools#guardian

Reviewer: Rajoute un petit titre, genre `# References`

Author: Cette syntaxe permet de ne pas noter les liens directement dans le code. Il n'y a pas de texte affiché ici.
